### -1, 2018
- [In-Place Activated BatchNorm for Memory-Optimized Training of DNNs](https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.02616), Samuel Rota Bulò, Lorenzo Porzi, Peter Kontschieder

In this work we present In-Place Activated Batch Normalization (InPlace-ABN) - a novel approach to drastically reduce the training memory footprint of modern deep neural networks in a computationally efficient way. Our solution substitutes the conventionally used succession of BatchNorm + Activation layers with a single plugin layer, hence avoiding invasive framework surgery while providing straightforward applicability for existing deep learning frameworks. We obtain memory savings of up to 50% by dropping intermediate results and by recovering required information during the backward pass through the inversion of stored forward results, with only minor increase (0.8-2%) in computation time. Also, we demonstrate how frequently used checkpointing approaches can be made computationally as efficient as InPlace-ABN. In our experiments on image classification, we demonstrate on-par results on ImageNet-1k with state-of-the-art approaches. On the memory-demanding task of semantic segmentation, we report results for COCO-Stuff, Cityscapes and Mapillary Vistas, obtaining new state-of-the-art results on the latter without additional training data but in a single-scale and -model scenario. Code can be found at this https URL(https://github.com/mapillary/inplace_abn) .

- [Panoptic Segmentation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.00868.pdf), Alexander Kirillov, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, Carsten Rother, Piotr Dollár

We propose and study a novel 'Panoptic Segmentation' (PS) task. Panoptic segmentation unifies the traditionally distinct tasks of instance segmentation (detect and segment each object instance) and semantic segmentation (assign a class label to each pixel). The unification is natural and presents novel algorithmic challenges not present in either instance or semantic segmentation when studied in isolation. To measure performance on the task, we introduce a panoptic quality (PQ) measure, and show that it is simple and interpretable. Using PQ, we study human performance on three existing datasets that have the necessary annotations for PS, which helps us better understand the task and metric. We also propose a basic algorithmic approach to combine instance and semantic segmentation outputs into panoptic outputs and compare this to human performance. PS can serve as foundation of future challenges in segmentation and visual recognition. Our goal is to drive research in novel directions by inviting the community to explore the proposed panoptic segmentation task. 
